.TH MiniLibX 3 "September 19, 2002"
.SH NAME
MiniLibX - Drawing inside windows
.SH SYNOPSYS

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_pixel_put
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, void *win_ptr, int x, int y, int color
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_string_put
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, void *win_ptr, int x, int y, int color, char *string
);


.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mlx_pixel_put
() function draws a defined pixel in the window
.I win_ptr
using the (
.I x
,
.I y
) coordinates, and the specified
.I color
\&. The origin (0,0) is the upper left corner of the window, the x and y axis
respectively pointing right and down. The connection
identifier,
.I mlx_ptr
, is needed (see the
.B mlx
man page).

Parameters for
.B mlx_string_put
() have the same meaning. Instead of a simple pixel, the specified
.I string
will be displayed at (
.I x
,
.I y
).

In both functions, it is impossible to display anything outside the
specified window, nor display in another window in front of the selected one.

.SH COLOR MANAGEMENT
The
.I color
parameter has an integer type. The displayed color needs to be encoded
in this integer, following a defined scheme. All displayable colors
can be split in 3 basic colors: red, green and blue. Three associated
values, in the 0-255 range, represent how much of each color is mixed up
to create the original color. Theses three values must be set inside the
integer to display the right color. The three least significant bytes of
this integer are filled as shown in the picture below:

.nf
        | 0 | R | G | B |   color integer
        +---+---+---+---+
.fi


While filling the integer, make sure you avoid endian problems. Remember
that the "blue" byte should always be the least significant one.


.SH SEE ALSO
mlx(3), mlx_new_window(3), mlx_new_image(3), mlx_loop(3)


.SH AUTHOR
Copyright ol@ - 2002-2015 - Olivier Crouzet
