.TH MiniLibX 3 "September 19, 2002"
.SH NAME
MiniLibX - Handle events
.SH SYNOPSYS

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_loop
(
.I void *mlx_ptr
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_key_hook
(
.I void *win_ptr, int (*funct_ptr)(), void *param
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_mouse_hook
(
.I void *win_ptr, int (*funct_ptr)(), void *param
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_expose_hook
(
.I void *win_ptr, int (*funct_ptr)(), void *param
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_loop_hook
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, int (*funct_ptr)(), void *param
);

.SH X-WINDOW EVENTS

The X-Window system is bi-directionnal. On one hand, the program sends orders to
the screen to display pixels, images, and so on. On the other hand,
it can get information from the keyboard and mouse associated to
the screen. To do so, the program receives "events" from the keyboard or the
mouse.

.SH DESCRIPTION

To receive events, you must use
.B mlx_loop
(). This function never returns. It is an infinite loop that waits for
an event, and then calls a user-defined function associated with this event.
A single parameter is needed, the connection identifier
.I mlx_ptr
(see the
.B mlx manual).

You can assign different functions to the three following events:
.br
- A key is pressed
.br
- The mouse button is pressed
.br
- A part of the window should be re-drawn
(this is called an "expose" event, and it is your program's job to handle it).
.br

Each window can define a different function for the same event.

The three functions
.B mlx_key_hook
(),
.B mlx_mouse_hook
() and
.B mlx_expose_hook
() work exactly the same way.
.I funct_ptr
is a pointer to the function you want to be called
when an event occurs. This assignment is specific to the window defined by the
.I win_ptr
identifier. The
.I param
adress will be passed to the function everytime it is called, and should be
used to store the parameters it might need.

The syntax for the
.B mlx_loop_hook
() function is identical to the previous ones, but the given function will be
called when no event occurs.

When it catches an event, the MiniLibX calls the corresponding function
with fixed parameters:
.nf

  expose_hook(void *param);
  key_hook(int keycode,void *param);
  mouse_hook(int button,int x,int y,void *param);
  loop_hook(void *param);

.fi
These function names are arbitrary. They here are used to distinguish
parameters according to the event. These functions are NOT part of the
MiniLibX.

.I param
is the address specified in the mlx_*_hook calls. This address is never
used nor modified by the MiniLibX. On key and mouse events, additional
information is passed:
.I keycode
tells you which key is pressed (look for the X11 include file "keysymdef.h"),
(
.I x
,
.I y
) are the coordinates of the mouse click in the window, and
.I button
tells you which mouse button was pressed.

.SH GOING FURTHER WITH EVENTS
The MiniLibX provides a much generic access to all X-Window events. The
.I mlx.h
include define
.B mlx_hook()
in the same manner mlx_*_hook functions work. The event and mask values
will be taken from the X11 include file "X.h".

See source code of mlx_int_param_event.c to find out how the MiniLibX will
call your own function for a specific event.

.SH SEE ALSO
mlx(3), mlx_new_window(3), mlx_pixel_put(3), mlx_new_image(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright ol@ - 2002-2014 - Olivier Crouzet
